# XPP Benchmarks

## IPC Benchmarks

* Original domain files and upper bounds from: http://api.planning.domains/
* We used all instances from the optimal IPC trak until 2018.
* `ipc_cost_bounds.py` contains the cost bounts for `x * best known cost bound` with `x in {0.25, 0.5, 0.75}`

#### Used in the following publications:

* R. Eifler, M. Cashmore, J. Hoffmann, D. Magazzeni, and M. Steinmetz **A New Approach to Plan-Space Explanation: Analyzing Plan-Property Dependencies in Oversubscription Planning** *Proceedings of the 34th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI'20), New York City, USA, 2020*
*  R. Eifler, M. Steinmetz, A. Torralba, and J. Hoffmann, **Plan-Space Explanation via Plan-Property Dependencies: Faster Algorithms & More Powerful Properties** *Proceedings of the 29th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI'20), 2020*


## Resource Constraint Domains

### Folder Structure
* `<domain name>`
  * versions with action costs
  * versions without resourc constraints 
  * `domain.pddl`
  * `<goals_X>`
    * `properties`
      * `AS_vs_LTL`
      * `LTL_only`
      * `all`
      * `learning_test_125`
      * `learning_test_150`
    * `<scale_X>

### Plan Properties

**Attention**: This property files still use the old syntax. The new syntax is based on JSON. An update is comming soon.

* **AS_vs_LTL**: Same plan properties once encoded in as 'Action Sets' once as *LTLf formula*
* **LTL_only**: Properties which need *LTLf*, for example orderings.
* **all**: All properties using either `AS` or `LTL` definition depending on what is easier to use.

#### Used in the following publications:

* R. Eifler, M. Cashmore, J. Hoffmann, D. Magazzeni, and M. Steinmetz **A New Approach to Plan-Space Explanation: Analyzing Plan-Property Dependencies in Oversubscription Planning** *Proceedings of the 34th AAAI Conference on Artificial Intelligence (AAAI'20), New York City, USA, 2020*
*  R. Eifler, M. Steinmetz, A. Torralba, and J. Hoffmann, **Plan-Space Explanation via Plan-Property Dependencies: Faster Algorithms & More Powerful Properties** *Proceedings of the 29th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI'20), 2020*

### Temporal Preference Learning Template Formulas

* Reference formulas used in the paper are in `learning_test_150`. `f_x_pos.json` contains the original template formula and `f_x_neg.json` the negated version.
* For each domain we fixed the number of goals:
  * blocksworld: `6`
  * nomystery: `4`
  * rovers: `6`
  * TPP: `4`

#### Used in the following publications:

* V. Seimetz, R. Eifler, and J. Hoffmann, **Learning Temporal Plan Preferences from Examples: An Empirical Study** *Proceedings of the 30th International Joint Conference on Artificial Intelligence (IJCAI'21), 2021*

## Data Sets

### Temporal Preference Learning Data Set (`IJCAI21_data`)

#### free_plan_generation

* This data belongs to the application setup, where the planners do not know the target formula.
* **plans**: Contains the first 50 plans generated by the corresponding planner.
* **annotated**: Run folders with plans annotated according to the satisfaction of the target formula. Each folder corresponds to one target formula.
* **learning**: Results file of the learning step.

#### target_formula

* This data belongs to the *idealized* setup where the planner knows the target formula and can generate positive and negative examples explicitly.
* **plan_generation**: Contains the generated examples plans by enforcing the target formulas and the negated target formula.
* **learning**: Results file of the learning step. 
